So this lecture is about installing R
Packages.
When you download R from the comprehensive
R
Archive Network CRAN, you get the base R
system.
And this includes a bunch of functions
that you can
use to summarize data and make plots and
things like that.
It basically covers the basic function,
functionality
that you'll need including implementing
the R language.
But the real reason R is so useful is that
there are a lot
of add-on packages that extend this basic
functionality in a bunch of different
directions.
Everything from cleaning data, to plotting
data,
to analyzing data and making interactive
applications.
So, R Packages are developed and published
by the larger
R community, hopefully including you at
the end of this course.
So, to obtain R Packages the primary place
that you're going to go is CRAN.
But for some biological applications, and
some big data applications, you might also
go to the Bioconductor Project that I have
linked to both the websites here.
You can also obtain information about the
available
packages on CRAN with the available
packages function.
And so what you would do is you can enter
R, start
up, and you'll get a prompt and you can
type this command: a.
And then give it the available packages
argument just like this.
And that will be a large number of
packages.
So you could just hit a after you hit that
you could just type a
and hit return and you would see all the
packages, but there would be thousands.
So instead you can use the head command to
look at say a certain number,
say just three of those, packages so these
are the first three in alphabetical order.
As of the making of this lecture there are
approximately
5200 packages on CRAN covering a wide
range of topics.
An equally large number available on
Bioconductor.
One thing that you can do is if you know
the
area that you're working in, but you don't
know the R package
you're after, you can go to the Task Views
link which
groups together many R packages that are
related to a specific topic.
So to install an R Package you primarily
use the function install.packages.
So what you would, you could do is just
use that with the package name as the
argument.
So for example if I want to install the
Slidify package what I
would do is I would just
type install.packages and then in quotes,
slidify.
And what that would do is that would go to
CRAN and it would install that package on
your computer.
Any package on which that package depends
will also be downloaded and installed.
This is actually one of the nicest parts
about
R, is that it's relatively straightforward
to install new packages.
You can also install multiple R packages
with a single
line, so what you do is you again, you
type, install.packages.
And now what you do is you enclose in
parentheses, with a C out front.
All the different package names separated
by commas,
and surrounded by parenth, or surrounded
by quotes.
And then what that would do is install the
slidify, ggplot2, and devtools packages.
You can also install packages relatively
straightforward procedure
in RStudio, so hopefully you've installed
R in RStudio.
You can go up to the Tools Menu and then
just go down
to Install Packages, and that will open up
a folder that will allow
you to pick the repository and then pick
the package that you want to
be able to install from, and it will
install that package for you.
Installing packages from Bioconductor is a
little bit different.
You don't use install.package, but it's
still quite since, straightforward.
So what you do is you go and you type this
command, source
and then this website right here, and that
will load the biocLite function.
And so then first you just type biocLite
by itself and what
that will do is it will install the basic
version of Bioconductor.
That's actually quite a few packages so be
prepared for a
lot of packages to be installed the first
time you run it.
Then the next time you want to install
specific
package you again would do just like you
would install.packages.
As you type biocLite and then c,
parentheses, and then
each package name in quotation part, marks
separated by a comma.
So that's how you install packages like
that.
You can also load the packages after
you've installed them.
So if you install it, it doesn't mean that
all of the functions are immediately
available to you.
You need to use the library command to
tell R which packages to load in.
So, for example, if you've installed the
ggplot2 library, and
you want to be able to use the functions
in
ggplot2, you need to type in the command
library(ggplot2) in
order to get access to that functions in
that package.
All packages need to be loaded, will be
loaded first, so for example if
you are missing some dependancies, then
you wont be able to load that package.
An important note here is that you should
not put the package names
In quotes when you are using library
otherwise you won't get correct loading.
[INAUDIBLE] some packages produce messages
when they are loading and some don't.
Either way you don't need to worry about
it.
So after you load a package the functions
exported by that package will be attached
at the top of the search list so what you
can do is you can type library(ggplot2).
And then if you type search, open
parentheses, close parentheses, you will
see all of the functions that are part of
the ggplot2 package.
So the summary is that R package is a
powerful mechanism for extending
the functionality of our R Packages could
be obtained by CRAN or other repositories.
You install the packages, function could
be used
to install packages from the R console and
then
library is what you do to load the
packages in to actually get access to the
functions.